# rnaseq
5-HT2aR Contributes to Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension by Modulating the AHR Pathway
Abstract：
Background: Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a severe, progressive disorder characterized by pathological pulmonary vascular remodeling. The serotonin 2A receptor (5-HT2aR, encoded by Htr2a), a G protein-coupled receptor expressed in the pulmonary vascular wall, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of PAH. However, the effect of 5-HT2aR deficiency has not been investigated in rat models relevant to human disease and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.
Methods: We generated Htr2a knockout rats using the CRISPR/Cas9 system. Experimental PAH was induced in these rats using monocrotaline (MCT, 60 mg/kg) or a combination of SU5416 (20 mg/kg) and hypoxia (10% O2). Hemodynamics, echocardiography, right ventricular hypertrophy, and pulmonary vascular remodeling were assessed. Transcriptomic analysis of lung tissue was conducted through RNA sequencing, with key findings validated by quantitative PCR.
Results: Knockout of Htr2a alleviated experimental PAH induced by MCT and SU5416/hypoxia in rats, as evidenced by significant reductions in right ventricular systolic pressure, right ventricular hypertrophy index, medial thickness and muscularization of small pulmonary arterioles. Transcriptomic analysis indicated that Htr2a knockout antagonized the altered gene expression pattern in disease models, with significant reductions in Cyp1a1, Cyp1b1 and Ahrr, key genes implicated in PAH pathogenesis, as confirmed by qPCR.
Conclusions: 5-HT2aR deficiency attenuated the development of experimental PAH in two rat models, likely through the downregulation of key genes within the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) pathway such as Cyp1a1, Cyp1b1 and Ahrr. Our findings highlight 5-HT2aR as a potential therapeutic target for PAH by clarifying the role of this receptor in pulmonary vascular remodeling.
Key words: pulmonary arterial hypertension, 5-HT receptor, AHR pathway, vascular remodeling, serotonin
